Update other guides in how to deploy an arbitrum chain (#2314)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/how-tos/arbitrum-chain-sdk-preparing-node-config.md

---
title: "How to configure your Arbitrum chain's node using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK"
description: 'Learn how to configure a node using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK'
author: GreatSoshiant, jose-franco
sme: GreatSoshiant, jose-franco
target_audience: 'Developers deploying and maintaining Arbitrum chains.'
user_story: As a current or prospective Arbitrum chain deployer, I need to understand how to configure a node using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK.
content_type: how-to
---

import RaaSNotice from '../partials/_raas-providers-notice.mdx';

<RaaSNotice />

> Once you have successfully deployed and initialized the Arbitrum chain core contracts, the next step is configuring and running an Arbitrum <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Nitro</a> node for your chain. The Nitro node is configured using a `JSON` file describing all the parameters for the node, including settings for the batch poster, validator, and the chain itself. See the [Overview](/launch-arbitrum-chain/arbitrum-chain-sdk-introduction.md) for an introduction to the process of creating and configuring an Arbitrum chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have successfully deployed and initialized the Arbitrum chain core contracts, the next step is to configure and run an Arbitrum <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Nitro</a> node for your chain. You configure a Nitro node using a `JSON` file describing all the parameters for the node, including settings for the batch poster, validator, and the chain itself. See the [Overview](/launch-arbitrum-chain/arbitrum-chain-sdk-introduction.md) for an introduction to creating and configuring an Arbitrum chain.
```

Before reading this guide, we recommend that you're familiar with the general process for creating new chains explained in the introduction and the first section of [How to deploy a Rollup chain](/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/02-deploying-rollup-chain.md).

## Structure of a Nitro node configuration JSON object

> A Nitro node reads its configuration from a JSON object that is usually provided in a file when starting up the node. This object has the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When starting up the node, a Nitro node reads its configuration from a JSON object, usually provided in a file. This object has the following structure:
```

Let's look at what methods to use for generating a configuration file for the Nitro node of your Arbitrum chain, using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK.

:::info Example script

The Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK includes an example script for generating a node configuration file. We recommend that you first understand the process described in this section and then check the [prepare-node-config](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-orbit-sdk/blob/main/examples/prepare-node-config/index.ts) script.

:::

### 1. Gather information from the deployed chain

To generate the configuration file for your node, you'll need the following information:

- Core contracts: you'll have to configure your node with all the core contracts created on deployment.
- Chain config: the same configuration used when deploying the chain must be passed to the node.
- Private keys of the accounts that will operate the chain, like the batch poster and the validator
- Any extra configuration desired for the sequencer, batch poster and validator, like batch posting frequency or maximum block speed.

### 2. Generate the node configuration object

> The `prepareNodeConfig` method generates a JSON object with the configuration for the node. It sets the appropriate defaults for most of the parameters, allowing you to override any of these defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `prepareNodeConfig` method generates a JSON object with the configuration for the node. It sets the appropriate defaults for most parameters, allowing you to override any of these defaults.
```

```typescript
import { createPublicClient, http } from 'viem';
import {
  createRollupPrepareTransaction,
  createRollupPrepareTransactionReceipt,
  ChainConfig,
  prepareNodeConfig,
} from '@arbitrum/orbit-sdk';

const parentChainPublicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain: parentChain,
  transport: http(),
});

// get the transaction
const tx = createRollupPrepareTransaction(
  await parentChainPublicClient.getTransaction({ hash: txHash }),
);

// get the transaction receipt
const txReceipt = createRollupPrepareTransactionReceipt(
  await parentChainPublicClient.getTransactionReceipt({ hash: txHash }),
);

// get the chain config and core contracts
const config = tx.getInputs()[0].config;
const chainConfig: ChainConfig = JSON.parse(config.chainConfig);
const coreContracts = txReceipt.getCoreContracts();

const nodeConfig = prepareNodeConfig({
  chainName: 'MyArbitrumChain',
  chainConfig,
  coreContracts,
  batchPosterPrivateKey,
  validatorPrivateKey,
  stakeToken: config.stakeToken,
  parentChainId: parentChain.id,
  parentChainRpcUrl: parentChain.rpcUrls.default.http[0],
});
```

> Note that `prepareNodeConfig` will also generate the specific configuration for AnyTrust chains if it detects that the chain configuration includes the appropriate flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `prepareNodeConfig` will also generate the specific configuration for AnyTrust chains if it detects that the configuration includes the appropriate flag.
```

Author: This refers to the "chain configuration" field (`chainConfig`) that is part of the create process.

> Once the node configuration object is generated, it can be saved on a file to be provided to the Nitro node later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After generating the node configuration object, it can be saved to a file for later use by the Nitro node.
```
